Getting Started
---------------

Hardware Requirements

In order to use Envoy, you will need an Amiga with at least 512K of RAM, and
AmigaDOS 2.04 or later.  You will also need a suitable network interface with
an accompanying SANA-II device driver.  Envoy includes device drivers for
the following network interfaces:

The Commodore A560 ArcNet Card
The Commodore A2060 ArcNet Card
The Commodore A2065 Ethernet Card




Software Installation
---------------------

Hard Disk Installation

If you are installing Envoy on a system with a hard disk, you should boot
your system as you normally would.  Once your system is booted, insert
the Envoy disk and double-click on it's Icon.  Once the Envoy disk's
window has opened, double-click on the Icon labeled "Install Hard Disk".

When the install process begins, you will be asked to choose a place
for the Envoy software to be installed.  A drawer named Envoy will be
created in the directory that you choose.

After you have chosen a directory for Envoy, the Installer will begin
to copy the Envoy software to your hard disk.

After installing the core parts of Envoy, the installer will pause
and ask you which services you would like enabled on your system.
The two choices are Printer and File System.

If enabled, the Printer service allows a printer that is connected
to your machine to be used by other machines on the network.  If you
do not have a printer, or do not wish to share a printer with other
users, you may leave this box unchecked.

If enabled, the File System service allows you to share hard disk
partitions or portions of them with users on the network.  If you
do not wish to do this, you may uncheck this box.

If you have chosen what services you would like to have enabled,
the Installer will procede to configure Envoy to reflect your
choice.

If you are running AmigaDOS 2.04, the Installer will then inform
you that is has to add an ASSIGN command to your user-startup
file for network printing to work correctly.


Next, you will be asked to choose the type of network you have,
either Simple or Complex.  If you are installing on a complex
network, please consult Chapter Seven.

If you are installing on a simple network, you will be asked
to name your Amiga.  This name may be anything you wish as
long as it does not contain a : symbol.

Next, you will be asked to number your Amiga.  This must be
a number in the range of 1 to 254.  (Note: if you are using
an Arcnet network interface, this number must match the
number that the DIP switches on the Arcnet card are set to.)

Finally, you will be asked to choose the type of network
interface that you will be using.  The installer script has
three choices: A2065, A2060/A560, and third party.

If you are not using one of the Commodore cards, you should
click on the third-party button.  A file requester will open
to let you select the driver for your network interface. You
will then be asked to supply two other pieces of information
for your card.  These are the IP and ARP packet type numbers.
These should be provided to you in the documentation for your
network interface.

Once the network interface part of the installation has been
completed, the installer will prompt the user to remove the
Envoy Install disk.  THe installer will then reboot the
machine.



Floppy Install
--------------

The Floppy install script is the same as the hard disk install
except for a few things.  First, and most important, user's
installing on a floppy system MUST boot from a COPY of their
original Workbench disk.  This is because the install script
will install on the disk that they boot from.

Also, on some configurations, the install script will have
to delete some of the Workbench programs in order to make room
for the Envoy software.

Finally, on floppy installations, only the client parts of Envoy
will be installed.  Floppy based systems will not be able to
export printers or file systems to the network, and will not
have a user and group database.

Everything else for the Floppy installation is the same as the
hard disk installation.



Note For Users of the A2060 Arcnet Card
---------------------------------------

The illustrations in the A2060 manual that show how to set the
DIP switches for the card are upside down and backwards from what
they should be.

