Please Note:  This doctumentation is very preliminary, so it is likely to
	      be somewhat sparse in some areas.

Envoy Security
--------------

The most recent version of Envoy now has simple security added in.  Security
in Envoy is similar to that of Unix, where you have users and groups.  Just
like in Unix, each user has a name, password, numeric user id, and a primary
group id.  Each user also has specific flags that specify whether or not a
user may create groups, change his name, change his password, etc.  A group
in Envoy is also similar to the concept in Unix, where each group has a
numeric group id and contains an arbitrary number of users.

Unlike Unix, every machine using Envoy does not need to have it's own private
list of users and groups.  Only machines that are exporting services need to
have a user and group database.

The core of Envoy security is the Accounts Manager, which runs on each machine
that is exporting services, such as a printer or file system.  The Accounts
Manager is a process that keeps track of all user and group information on a
particular machine.  The Accounts Manager is accessed from Envoy services by
using the accounts.library, which is described below.


User and Group Administration
-----------------------------

User and Group administration is accomplished by using the two configuration
tools, named Users and Groups.

The Users tool allows you to add, remove, or change users on a particular
machine.  When it is started, it will ask you to log in.  If this is the
first time you've run the Users tool, you should log in with a user name
of "Admin" with a password of "Admin".  At this point you should probably
change the password for the Admin account.  You may also change then name
of the Admin account if you wish.

If you want to add a user to your machine, click on the Create gadget below
the ListView gadget.  A new account named "NewUser" will be created.  You
can then change then change "NewUser" to anything that you like, as well as
the password.  You can also change what the user can and can't do by using
the checkbox gadgets on the right.


To add or remove groups, you must run the Groups tool.  Once you have logged
in, you will see two listview gadgets.  The one on the left lists the groups
that have been created on your machine.  The list on the right is for
displaying what users are members of the currently selected group.

To add a group, click on the Create button below the left listview.  A new
group named "NewGroup" will be created.  You may change the name of this
group by clicking in the string gadget below the lefthand listview.

To add a user to the currently selected group, click on the Add... button
below the righthand listview.  A requester will open that will allow you
to click on a user to add.

You may remove a group member by clicking on a user's name in the righthand
listview and clicking on the Remove button.

Each group also may have a Group Administrator that is allowed to add or
remove users to a particular group.  The default for the Group Administrator
is the Admin account.  You may change this by clicking on the Select...
gadget above the righthand listview.  A requester will open that will allow
you to select the new Group Administrator.



