
Thank You for purchasing MARAUDER II!

Discovery Software International is committed to one goal, to provide you with the
best possible sofware for your Amiga. We hope you will be pleased with
Marauder II. We believe it is the finest disk backup utility for the Amiga. It is the
fastest, most powerful, and most reliable tool for backing up ALL of your Amiga
software, both protected and unprotected. Its design incorporates high
performance, ease of use, and a flexible update system with the future in mind. We
believe software should be easy to use. In keeping with this philosophy, MARAUDER
II has the most intuitive user interface of any backup utility available for the Amiga.

Requirements:

MARAUDER II requires an Amiga 1000 computer with at least 512K of memory to
operate. It works best on machines with additional expansion memory and one or
more external disk drives. MARAUDER II also requires Kickstart version 1.1 or
greater. We recommend that you use Kickstart version 1.2 if possible. The
newest version of the system software provides features that allow MARAUDER II
to deliver enhanced performance. MARAUDER II is released with Workbench 1.2,
but it will operate without change under the 1.1 release of the system software.

AN EXTREMELY IMPORTANT BIT OF ADVICE!

If you DO NOT already own MARAUDER I (that is, if this package is not an upgrade
from MARAUDER I) then you MUST record the serial number for this program in the
space provided on the inside back-cover of your manual. If you DO already own
MARAUDER I you will be on file under your original registration number, and needn't
mail the new card in. If, for some reason, you neglected to mail your MARAUDER I
registration card to us, you can mail the new card instead. Your serial number is
printed on the registration card you received with your package. This number is NOT
on your disk and CANNOT be recovered if you fail to record it, so please be sure
you copy it correctly. After recording the serial number you should then complete the
registration card and return it immediately to Discovery Software International. If we
do not have your registration card on file you will NOT be eligible for technical
support or product updates. We will make no exceptions for any reason.





Starting MARAUDER II:

First turn on your Amiga and monitor and load Kickstart, or if your machine is
already running simply reboot. If you are unfamiliar with these procedures please
refer to Chapter 3 of the Introduction to Amiga which you received with your
machine. MARAUDER II is delivered on a ready to use Workbench 1.2 disk. When
the image of a hand holding a Workbench disk appears insert your MARAUDER II
disk in the internal disk drive. The Workbench screen will appear.

Next, make a backup copy of your MARAUDER II disk. Again, if you are unfamiliar
with this procedure please refer to Chapter 3 of Introduction to Amiga. You should
use the backup copy and keep your original in a safe place.

To run MARAUDER II simply double-click the MARAUDER II disk Icon. A new drawer
which contains the MARAUDER II icon will open on the Workbench screen. Next
double-click on the MARAUDER II icon to start the program. (The Icon looks like a
sledgehammer) After a short delay you will hear a sound from the Amiga and the
Discovery Software logo screen will be displayed. The main MARAUDER II screen
will then appear. Click the left mouse button on the CONTINUE gadget of the
copyright requester to proceed.

Purchase Verification:

After the copyright requester has been displayed you will be asked to type in a
word or phrase from this manual. Please look up the specified word in this
manual, click the left mouse button on the requester's text gadget, and enter the
word or phrase precisely as it appears. Click the left mouse button on the
CONTINUE gadget to proceed. If you have failed to enter the correct word or
phrase you will have two chances to retry. If you fail three times you will need to
reboot your machine. This should never happen.

The MARAUDER II screen An Overview:

The MARAUDER II user-interface has been designed to mimic the actual Amiga
disk copying procedure as closely as possible. On the MARAUDER II screen you
will see visual representations of an Amiga with a monitor and three external disk
drives. At the top of the screen there are gadgets for starting and stopping the
MARAUDER II copy process. You will also see images of an Original and a Copy
disk as well as a set of gadgets for selecting Source and Target drives.


Selecting Source and Target Drives:

Before backing up a disk it is necessary to select which disk drive will contain the
source disk and which drives will contain target disks. On single drive systems the
source and target drives must necessarily be the same and are both selected as the
internal drive by default. On systems with one or more external drives the default
selection uses the internal drive as the source and the first external drive as the
target. You do not need to make any more selections if you wish to use these default
settings.

There are two methods for selection source and target drives in MARAUDER II. First
you may click the left mouse button on either of the two disk images. The disk
marked "ORIG" represents the original or source disk, and the disk marked "COPY"
represents the copy or target disk. After clicking, a copy of the disk image will
attach itself to the mouse pointer. You may then move the mouse pointer over the
desired disk drive and click the left mouse button again to select that drive. If
the drive is available for use the disk image will detach itself from the pointer, slip
into the drive, and a message will be displayed on the miniature Amiga monitor to
indicate your selection. If the desired drive is not attached to the system or is already
in use a message will be displayed on the miniature Amiga monitor to indicate the
problem. You can let go of an attached disk withou making a selection by clicking
the left mouse button anywhere on the rainbow background of the screen. The
attached disk image will then disappear into the rainbow.

The alternate method of drive selection is to click the left mouse button on any of
the gadgets in the "Source" and "Target" gadget arrays. These arrays are labeled
"DF0:", "DF1:", "DF2:", and "DF3:", which represent the internal drive, and the first,
second, and third external drives respectively. Selected drives and represented by
green gadgets and unselected drives are repesented by red gadgets. A
previously selected target drive may be deselected by clicking the left mouse
button on its green-hilighted gadget. The "Source" drive cannot be deselected, but it
can be changed by clicking on another drive gadget.



Starting the Copy:

After you have selected the source and target drives you wish to use, you are ready
to start the MARAUDER II copy process. This is easy to do, just click the left mouse
button on the MARAUDER II "START" gadget. A requester will appear on the
screen displaying your source and target drive choices. If the displayed choices
are not the ones you wish to use you may cancel at this time by clicking the left
mouse button on the requester's "CANCEL" gadget. Otherwise, you should make
sure that the disk to be copied is located in the selected source drive and that the
disks to become duplicates are loacted in their respective target drives. If you have
selected any of your drives as both a source and a target, then that drive will initially
serve as the source, and a requester will appear, prompting you to insert a target
disk at the appropriate time. When the proper disks are in the proper drives click
the left mouse button on the requester's "CONTINUE" gadget to proceed.

It is important to note that the previous contents of a disk are irretrievably lost when it
is used as a target disk for MARAUDERII. You must be certain not to copy onto a
disk containing programs or data which you will need later. There is no way to
recover information from a disk which has been inadvertently copied onto, so
please be careful. Various conditions and events may cause MARAUDER II to
display requesters requiring your input or attention. When such a requester
appears you should follow the indicated instructions to continue or cancel as you
wish.

When MARAUDER II has completed the backup process it will display a requester
with the message "Copy finished", and you may click the left mouse button in the
requester's "CONTINUE", gadget to proceed.

The Status Display:

To inform you of the current state of the copy process a status display is provided on
the MARAUDER II screen. It is located on the monitor of the miniature Amiga at
screen left. When MARAUDER II is idle the monitor is blank. At other times, the
monitor screen will display the status of the copy in progress and will relay the results
of drive selection operations. Error messages concerning illogical placement of disk
Icons can also be expected from time to time.

Once MARAUDER II has been activated with the START gadget the monitor screen
becomes the prime feedback mechanism for the copy process. The name of the
source drive will be displayed near the top, and the destination drive's name near the
bottom. Under each of these will be displayed the status of that drive, either reading
or writing, and the track and side involved. If the information on any track of the
source disk is not an Amiga DOS format the reading drive's status will indicate "Not a
DOS Track". Depending on the nature of the source track the monitor display may
indicate that the read in progress is being retried. This will be a common ocurrence
when copying protected disks of various types and may also occur if the source disk
is faulty. When making multiple copies with one drive acting as both source and
destination, only the status of the source drive will be displayed during disk reads.
Otherwise, the monitor will display both reading and writing status at once. During
the Write, the names of all drives involved will be displayed one by one as each is
written to. Likewise, the monitor will display which side of each disk is being written.

MultiCopying:

MARAUDER II has the capability to make up to four simultaneous copies from a
single original. It can also make multiple sets of duplicates without having to re-read
the original. These features make it possible to use MARAUDER II as the core of an
economical and efficient disk reproduction system. User groups producing large
numbers of public domain library disks can use MARAUDER II to speed up the
tedious and time consuming duplication process. Commercial software houses may
find that MARAUDER II presents an attractive alternative to expensive software
reproduction services.

To make multiple simultaneous copies, simply select more than one target drive
using the drive selection procedures described above. MARAUDER II will prompt
you when it's necessary to swap disks.

If your system has one megabyte or more expansion memory, then it may be most
efficient to use all of your drives as target drives simnce it will be possible for
MARAUDER II to read the entire source disk into memory. After MARAUDER II has
completed making each set of copies you will be asked if you would like to make
more copies of the same disk. You can click on the "CONTINUE" gadget to make an
additional set of copies without having to read the source disk again. You may
instead click the "CANCEL" gadget to terminate the copy process.




If You Have Only One Drive:

The backup operation will require several swaps of the original and duplicate disks
before it is completed. Requesters will be displayed indicating when it is time to
swap the disks. Pay close attention to each requester's instructions as they are
displayed.

Index Sync Option:

Turning Index Sync "on" from the Options menu directs MARAUDER II to align the
physical starting position of each data track with the index hole in the diskette. This
option may need to be set to copy some software correctly, but it will substantially
increase the time necessary to copy a ;disk with MARAUDER II. For most of your
backup needs Index Sync is neither required nor recommended.


Verification Option:

Turning Verification "on" from the Options menu directs MARAUDER II to attempt to
verify its work. The MARAUDER II does this by comparing the data written to the
target disk with the data read from the source disk. Use of this option does not
quarantee a successful copy of some protected or damaged disks, but it may
help you detect a defective target disk. If there's a problem, the Verfication option
causes verify-related error messages to be displayed in the "Copy finished"
requester. The first error message indicates that the source disk contained
unreadable data. The second error message indicates that the target disk couldn't be
written to. This may be due to damage on the source or target disks, respectively.
These errors may not be fatal. Keep in mind that the best test of whether a copy
works is to try to use it. Verifcation is intended primarily for those using
MARAUDER II for mass duplication.

Copy Mode:

MARAUDER II can operate in either of two copy modes, Analytical or Verbatim. The
Copy Mode selection of the Options menu allows you to choose which mode
MARAUDER II will use. Most copies are made using Analytical mode, which is
the program's default setting. In this mode MARAUDER II produces an exact
duplicate of the source disk whenever possible. In the case of copy-protected
disks Analytical mode causes MARAUDER II to do its best to defeat the copy
protection in order to make a working copy. We recommend that you always use
Analytical mode, even when copying unprotected disks.

Speed Check:

The Speed Check option will give you an accurate measure of how much data your
disk drive is writing to a disk. The faster a disk drive spins, the less data it can
write on each track. Many Amiga copy-protection schemes are based on this fact. A
box will show the drive speed in bytes per revolution, and normal values should
fall between 6300 and 6400 bytes.

MARAUDER II performs the speed check on the first selected Target drive. The
speed check destroys data on the target disk, so be careful. Data lost
cannot be recovered. You should immediately reformat or copy to the disk that you
use for the speed check so that you won't mistake it for a bad disk.

MARAUDER II Utility Programs:

In addition to MARAUDER II itself, your release disk also includes four utility
programs, Reflector3, TheDecoder, DiskWipe and DiskErr. Reflector3 is used to back
up the Mirror Copier, version 1.0 through 1.3. The Decoder can produce
completely decrypted versions of several popular programs from their encrypted
originals. This is useful for fast loading and hard disk installation. DiskErr checks
a diskette for errors, and DiskWipe quickly erases a disk.

Reflector3:

Reflector3 is located in the root directory of the MARAUDER II disk. To start it
simply double click the Reflector3 icon or type the name "Reflector3" from the
CLI. The program will provide you with step by step instructions to follow. When
Reflector3 has finished successfully you will have a ready to run program called
"MIRROR" in the RAM: device. This program can then be copied onto any AmigaDOS
disk and is not copy-protected in any way. Each time you run "MIRROR", however,
you will have to reboot your machine as this program is not compatible with the
Amiga multi-tasking environment.




The Decoder:

The Decoder will produce totally decrypted versions of the following programs from
their copy-protected originals:

Deluxe Paint Deluxe Print
Deluxe Video Instant Music
MarbleMadness! Finanical Cookbook
Adventure Construction Set

The Decoder can be invoked only from the CLI. The command line has the
following format:

Decoder [inputfile outputfile]

In this example Inputfile is the name of the encrypted original, and Outputfile is
the name you wish to give the decrypted output file. The Decoder will display a
short copyright message and begin its work. If an error is encountered the
program will display a message describing the problem and will then terminate
unsuccessfully. The program will exit with a short message on successful
completion.

We suggest that you first copy your original disk with MARAUDER II and do all your
work on the backup copy. You will find the appropriate input file in the "c" directory
of the source disk, it is the file with the ".dat" filename extension (e.g. "dpaint.dat",
"MarbleMadness!.dat"). A sample command line for The Decoder would be as
follows:

"decoder df1:c/dpaint.dat ram:dpaint"

After the decoder is finished you will want to delete the ".dat" file from your source
disk and then copy the decrypted version to version to the root directory of your
source disk. You may need to use the AmigaDOS "Protect" command to change
the deletion status of the ".dat" file before you can delete it.

An example of doing this would be:

"protect df1:c/dpaint.dat rwed"
"delete df1:c/dpaint.dat",
"copy ram:dpaint df1:dpaint"

You can run the new version of "dpaint" just like the old version, except it will no
longer perform its rather lengthy prologue and verification. After decryption you will
need to experiment to determine exactly what files need to be copied or renamed in
each case for hard-disk installation.

DiskErr:

The DiskErr program is a convenient way of checking whether or not a disk contains
unreadable data. Starting the program causes it to scan sequentially across the disk
looking for nonstandard data. If any non AmigaDOS track data is encountered during
the scan DiskErr will print the location of the data. This program is very useful for
determining whether an unsuccessful copy attempt was due to bad media or not. If
the copy didn't work because of bad media, then the errors on the source and target
disks will be different. The syntax of the DiskErr command is as follows:

DiskErr [drivenum] [-v]

In this example "drivenum" is the number of one of the drives (drives are numbered 0,
1, 2, and 3). The "-v" is optional, and instructs DiskErr to provide a verbose listing of
all errors on the disk in drive "drivenum"

DiskWipe:

DiskWipe is a utilty for quickly erasing a 3.5" diskette. When started it will completely
erase the selected disk. DiskWipe does not format the disk for AmigaDOS.
The syntax for DiskWipe is:

DiskWipe [drivenum] [-v]

See the section above on DiskErr for an explanation of the syntax of the DiskWipe
command.

Installing MARAUDER II on Another Disk:

You will need to have a workbench disk or some other bootable disk. The disk must
be called "Workbench" for installation. You can relabel this disk after installing
MARAUDER II by choosing "Rename" from the menu called "Workbench" at the top
left of the screen in the Amiga Workbench environment. For the actual installation, an
executable file is included on the MARAUDER II disk called M2Install. This is a
"batch" file which can be invo5ked by typing:

"execute m2install"

This should be typed at the CLI "1>" prompt. You get to the CLI by double-clicking on
the CLI Icon in the System drawer whcih is in the Workbench disk window. Typing
"execute M2Install" copies all the necessary files to run the MARAUDER II into the
RAM: device. It then prompts you to insert and disk called "Workbench" into drive df0:
and proceeds to copy the necessarty files from RAM: to "Workbench". You can then
treat the new disk just like your original MARAUDER II disk.

Troubleshooting:

Extensive effort has been put into making MARAUDER II as automatic and
trouble-free as possible. If you are having trouble backing up a particular title be
sure to check the current back-up list to see whether that program appears. A
curent list will be supplied with each MARAUDER II shipped. If the title is
mentioned on the current list then try your original to verify that it runs. (seriously!)
If the title is not mentioned on the backup list, MARAUDER IImay still be able to
backup the disk so it's wise to give it a try. Also, you may need to use a different
destination disk. The media on the first disk that you used may have been faulty.
Always be sure to use the highest quality magnetic media for your distination disks.

